---
layout: post
tag: "FPV"
title: PEBCAK
---

`PEBCAK`, if you're not a computer nerd of a certain vintage, means 'problem
exists between keyboard and chair', and is a way of indicating to the next tech
support person that this user's hardware is *just fine*, and to focus instead on
the meat sack trying to use it.

So it turns out that my quad *does not* have a dead motor, and my retailer
asking me to provide video proof of death revealed this. That's not to say that
the quad is now working - the motor still fails when the radio is connected.
That indicates a software/configuration issue, so at least it doesn't have to go
back to the retailer.

Modern radio-controlled devices like quadcopters actually have a bunch of
computers running them. The radio controller itself runs an open source
operating system called '[OpenTX](https://www.open-tx.org)', the quad has a
flight controller which runs '[Betaflight](https://betaflight.com)', and even
the controllers for the motors have a custom firmware called '[BLHeli](https://github.com/bitdump/BLHeli)'. 
Each of these has its own configurator software that runs on your computer, and
Betaflight even has a CLI that's effectively like opening a shell console on
your quad's flight controller.

In my case, I've not touched the BLHeli stuff at all, but I did struggle a
little with the initial set up of my radio, so it's entirely possible that I've
done something by mistake that's causing it to disarm a motor.

The solution is going to be a full reset of the flight controller and deleting
the 'model' on the radio - essentially clearing it all out and starting over.
This is annoying in terms of time wasted, but I'm mostly okay with it: that time
wasn't *really* wasted, instead it was the 'build one to throw away' approach we
sometimes take with software in order to learn about a new system or problem
space. Just accept that you're going to fuck up the first time you do a new
thing and make sure that in fucking up you learn enough to get it right next
time - or at least to do exciting new and different types of fuck up.

The only really annoying thing is that with other time constraints this week,
it's still probably going to mean no daily flight practice until next week
either way.
