---
layout: post
tag: "Video Game"
title: "dot-io style space binman game concept"
---

I'm not planning to jump directly from zero game making experience (at least
since I was a teenager) to making a releasable game, so I'm fishing around for
ideas that lend themselves to incremental development.

One popular game type these days is the 'dot io' game, named because most of
them have `.io` domain names. It's a sort of low barrier to entry multiplayer
genre of browser game, the best known example of which is probably
[slither.io](http://slither.io).

I've had an idea kicking around the back of my head for a while for a game based
on the idea of clearing up bits of junk in orbit around the Earth to avoid a
Kessler event. I think this theme works well with a 'slither' style of gameplay.

The rough idea is this: you are a space binman. Your job is to go out and
collect bits of debris that have escaped from old broken satellites. You only
have a limited amount of time to collect stuff before you run out of O2 and have
to return to base - you also have a limited amount of space to hold the stuff
you collect. You get paid according to the number of things you collect, more if
you buy a sorter and turn over stuff to the recycling centre, and even more if
you buy upgrades that let you extract valuable components directly from the
broken satellites. You spend your money on upgrades (like the 'resource type
scanner', or the 'satellite disassembly tool', or increased O2 or storage) and
repeat.

I feel like this gives a couple of twists on the standard dot-io approach: the
time limit stops poeple with loads of free time from just hooving up all the
junk (when you play actual `slither.io`, you'll see these *huge* player snakes
who've been around in the game for hours, that's what I'm trying to avoid). The
upgrading over multiple play sessions will require a bit more persistence of
characters than a typical dot-io game. It'll need some sort of account system to
let people keep their progress in the game. There's also a few different paths
you can follow: a player can improve their junk gathering with increased
scanners, storage, etc, or can specialise in going after higher-risk/reward
satellite components. I *don't* want any PvP, so no stealing other player's
work, but blocking other players by doing the work *first* is fair game.

I think this concept would work well for the incremental development - I can
make a basic single-player version to test game mechanics, and add in the more
advanced features and multiplayer as I go.
